should you be worried about google's new
helpful content update
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100 b2b
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email where i'm sharing actual
website and marketing tips useful
podcasts free goodies and more each and
every monday so you can kick off your
week with a bang why not give it a shot
over at business growth dot email
so google has very recently announced
the helpful content update the update is
focused on people first content it's new
it's site wide and it's considered with
a bunch of other signals google already
uses to measure and rank websites right
now it's focused on english speaking
content but might roll out to other
languages in the future the update is
geared towards rewarding content that
really satisfies visitors meaning that
content that doesn't satisfy visitors
probably won't rank quite as well as it
used to but what does this really mean
so if we look at google search central
blog and if we look at their insights
around what we should focus on when it
comes to people first content they've
given some tips right here so basically
saying do you have an existing or
intended audience for your business or
site that would find the content useful
if they came direct to you
does your content clearly demonstrate
first-hand experience a depth of
knowledge for example expertise that
comes from having actually used the
product service or visiting a place does
your site have a primary purpose or
focus
after reading your content will someone
leave feeling they've learned enough
about a topic to help them achieve their
goal will someone reading your content
leave feeling like they've had a
satisfying experience and are you
keeping in mind google's guidance for
core updates and their product reviews
and to put some context around it here's
a few points that google have said that
we should try and avoid so things like
using automation to produce contents
whether that is software tools that put
together content put together copy
perhaps be wary a bit more wary of those
than you would be before
summarizing what other people what other
companies what other brands have said
without adding value without adding your
own insights your own thoughts your own
opinions your own stats your own data
points etc
writing about trends that are going on
right now
rather than actually focusing on what
your audience what your idle clients
what your target market actually care
about learning
going for a really high word count just
to hit a number because you think that's
going to rank better rather than
focusing on really quality content and
copy
writing on a niche writing on an
industry without having an area of
expertise yourself or your team on that
piece of copy and promising to answer
questions that you don't have
information or content on so it sounds
like a click baity where you're saying
look you're going to learn about this or
unusual ways to do this or find out why
someone did this they're not actually
giving the answers giving the intel that
people are going for in your content
which is just good practice really
because that's just going to frustrate
people they're going to bounce off your
site and head to a competitor so what's
google's process for finding sites that
don't follow the guidelines from the
latest update well it looks like
google's using machine learning to
identify unhelpful content rather than
manually reviewing sites google said the
update looks a range of signals around
pages and the sites to determine the
rankings of a page google said
sites identified by this update may find
the signal applied to them over a period
of months so it looks like even if a
site is identified as not having helpful
content it might take months for the
effects for ranking losses and such to
actually have an impact so that's a
summary of the helpful content update
but what do i recommend based on this
well i recommend that you craft the
content the copy on your website and you
focus it on what your audience actually
care about so if someone lands on let's
say an information page on your site
they can quickly understand
how it helps them maybe the problems
that you fix a summary of the key
benefits and features and maybe backing
up all these claims with social proofs
of things like testimonials reviews
videos and more
so what's the best way to actually learn
what your audience care about or you
want to talk to them so depending on the
amount of customers you've got you might
set up calls with them if you're a
service or product based provider you
might run surveys through your website
or via email you might set up
conversations with zoom or even
face-to-face depending on your industry
and you really want to understand what
do these customers
really care about learning so for
example if you're crafting an
information or product service page you
might want to know what are the key
problems or key frustrations they have
around how this service helps what are
some of the pain points that they have
around this what are some of the key
questions that they want answered and
then you can make sure the content the
copy on this page is really geared
towards handling those problems handling
those frustrations handling those
questions and making sure there's no
doubt in the prospect's mind that you're
offering the information is the best fit
for them and it's going to guide them to
take that next step whatever that might
be on your site and there you have it so
that is a quick snappy summary of the
google helpful content update so as long
as you're creating content for your idle
clients for your target audience and not
just spamming out content to try and
rank on search engines without actually
thinking about your target customer you
should be absolutely fine as always if
you enjoyed today's episode a quick
subscribe on youtube or rating on your
audio podcast channel it's very much
appreciated and with that i should catch
you on the next episode cheers